README.md, before:

# Ansible Demo Environment

This repo contains the files necessary to deploy a ready-to-use sanbox environment to start learning to use Ansible. The deployent is made simple by deploying the environment on Azure using the Terraform.

## Prerequsities

### Local Machine

If you wish to set the environent from your local machine, you will need to make sure the following tools are installed:

- `Azure CLI` or `Azure PowerShell`
- `Git`
- `Terraform`

Using the `Azure CLI` or `Azure PowerShell`, set the subscription you wish to use for your deployment.

### Azure Cloud Shell

Alternatively, you could use the Azure Cloud Shell. The Azure Cloud Share already has Azure CLI/PowerShell, Git and Terraform installed in the shell. If this is your preferred method, you can use this guide: [Azure Cloud Shell Quickstart - Bash (Start Cloud Shell)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-shell/quickstart#start-cloud-shell)

Once the cloud shell is created, you can proceed with the next steps.

## Getting Started

1. First, clone the files from the repository.

```
git clone https://github.com/jonathanruiz/ansible-demo.git
```

2. In the `terraform` folder, there is a file named `variables.tf`. Open the file.

3. Change the values of the `username` and `password` variables. Find the values that says `CHANGE-ME` and change them to strong username and passwords.

4. Run initialize Terraform.

```
terraform init
```

5. Deploy the resources.

```
terraform apply
```

6. Once deployed, there will be an output for the SSH command necessary to be able to SSH into the `jumpbox` virtual machine. The output should look something like:

```
ssh username@<Public-IP-Address>
```

7. Once connected, change the directory to the `ansible` folder.

```
cd ansible
```

8. You are now ready to start running Ansible Playbooks. In the `ansible` directory, you should see some playbooks to get you started.

Commit message:

updated the README with instructions on how to run a playbook

README.md, after:

# Ansible Demo Environment

This repo contains the files necessary to deploy a ready-to-use sanbox environment to start learning to use Ansible. The deployent is made simple by deploying the environment on Azure using the Terraform.

## Prerequsities

### Local Machine

If you wish to set the environent from your local machine, you will need to make sure the following tools are installed:

- `Azure CLI` or `Azure PowerShell`
- `Git`
- `Terraform`

Using the `Azure CLI` or `Azure PowerShell`, set the subscription you wish to use for your deployment.

### Azure Cloud Shell

Alternatively, you could use the Azure Cloud Shell. The Azure Cloud Share already has Azure CLI/PowerShell, Git and Terraform installed in the shell. If this is your preferred method, you can use this guide: [Azure Cloud Shell Quickstart - Bash (Start Cloud Shell)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-shell/quickstart#start-cloud-shell)

Once the cloud shell is created, you can proceed with the next steps.

## Getting Started

1. First, clone the files from the repository.

```
git clone https://github.com/jonathanruiz/ansible-demo.git
```

2. Run initialize Terraform.

```
terraform init
```

3. Deploy the resources.

```
terraform apply
```

4. You will be prompted to fill in some values. Input the desired `username` and `password`.

5. Once deployed, there will be an output for the SSH command necessary to be able to SSH into the `jumpbox` virtual machine. The output should look something like:

```
ssh username@<Public-IP-Address>
```

6. Once connected, change the directory to the `ansible` folder.

```
cd ansible
```

7. You are now ready to start running Ansible Playbooks. In the `ansible` directory, you should see some playbooks to get you started.

## Run a Playbook

To run your first playbook, run the following command:

```
ansible-playbook update-upgrade.yaml -i hosts --user <username> --ask-pass
```
